"Stable Arvo" Blog post (#298)
urbit/urbit.org: content/blog/stable-arvo.md

+++
title = "Stable Arvo"
date = 2019-11-14

> description = "In order to get closer to an Urbit that can last forever, we set for ourselves the goal of getting Arvo to a point that we can credibly call ‘stable’ by the end of 2019. "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "This year we set out to get Arvo to a point that we can credibly call ‘stable.' "
```

> aliases = ["/posts/essays/stable-arvo", "/posts/stable-arvo"]

Reviewer: Aliases are only necessary if the post was at a previous place!

Author: AH, gotcha — very good to know

With the recent 0.9.0 release we’ve gotten to the point where we can make almost all our upgrades over the air. Even the language is now upgradeable over the wire.

But — in order for that scene in 2059 to actually work, these upgrade mechanisms have to be in place. As your ship upgrades itself, the system needs a way to ensure that each upgrade gets applied in a compatible way. Right now we’re careful about deploying over the air updates such that they don’t break, but that’s obviously not sustainable.

Once this versioning scheme gets released later this year, there’s nothing technically preventing you from starting a late-2019 Urbit in 2039. We hope you’ll use it a lot in the interim — but this is an essential feature for a decentralized system that claims to upgrade itself. We’re really excited to get it implemented.

These three areas of work are all due to complete later this quarter. This gets us something that’s much more resilient than what we’ve ever had before. Given a stable system, we can actually start to put some serious weight on it. 

> `~poldec-tonteg`

Reviewer: Signoff isn't necessary, we use bylines now.

Author: Perfect, another good detail to note for future updates.
